# LSV PA2 Report

## Theory
If a function f(..., x, ...) is the positive unate in x if and only if 
f(..., x = 0, ...) → f(..., x = 1, ...) is tautology.

```
    f(..., x = 0, ...) → f(..., x = 1, ...)
≡  ¬f(..., x = 0, ...) ﹀ f(..., x = 1, ...)
≡ ¬(f(..., x = 0, ...) ︿ ¬f(..., x = 1, ...))
```

Therefore, f is the positive unate in x if and only if
f(..., x = 0, ...) ︿ ¬f(..., x = 1, ...) is unsatisfiable.

## Implementation

### Convert to AIG
The input network is in format `Abc_Ntk_t`.
We convert it to the equivalent AIG structure in format `Aig_Man_t` with function `Abc_NtkToDar()`.

### Convert to CNF
Then, we convert the network into equivalent CNF structure in format `Cnf_Dat_t` with function `Cnf_Derive()`.
Since the formula contain positive cofactor and negative cofactor,
we duplicate the CNF structure by `Cnf_DataDup()` and use `Cnf_DataLift()` to change the variable of the new CNF structure.

### Create SAT
Then, we add the two CNF structures into the sat solver in format `sat_solver` with function `Cnf_DataWriteUntoSolver()` and `Cnf_DataWriteUntoSolverInt()`.
Because the primary input of the positive and negative cofactor should be the same except the cofactor variable, we use function `sat_solver_add_buffer_enable()` to introduce extra variables to assert the equivalence of the primary input.

### Solve SAT
Suppose we are now test whether the primary output O is positive unate in primary input I.
We add some extra assumptions into solver.
Variable O should be false and true in the two CNF structure respectively.
Variable I should be false and true in the two CNF structure respectively.
The variables for assert equivalence of the primary inputs are true except which for I.
Then we solve it with function `sat_solver_solve()`. 
If the result is UNSAT, O is positive unate in I.

### Compute Results
For each primary outputs O, for each primary inputs I, we test whether O is positive/negative unate in I or not.
Then we use C standard library `qsort()` to sort the results and print them.

## Optimization
1. Version 1 implement the algorithm descripted above.
2. Version 2 use the function `Abc_NtkCreateCone()` and set flag `fUseAllCis` true to compute the cone of a primary output before convert the network to `Aig_Man_t`.
Since we set the flag true, the output cone will use all primary inputs. Therefore, we do not need to change the later part of the implementation.
The cone can reduce the number of the variables which the sat solver need to solve.
But we need to create the sat solver for each primary output separately.
3. Version 3 also use the function `Abc_NtkCreateCone()` but set flag `fUseAllCis` false. The output cone now contain only necessary inputs.
This flag further reduce the number of variables in the sat solver.
But now the algorithm need to check whether the primary input is in the cone or not.
If a primary input I is not in the cone of primary output O. That means O is both positive and negative unate in I.

## Results
|                              | pa2-ref | Ver. 1 | Ver. 2 | Ver. 3 |
|------------------------------|---------|--------|--------|--------|
| random_control/arbiter.aig   | 5.6     | 30     | 6.1    | 5.8    |
| random_control/cavlc.aig     | 0.058   | 0.062  | 0.055  | 0.054  |
| random_control/ctrl.aig      | 0.061   | 0.038  | 0.068  | 0.067  |
| random_control/dec.aig       | 0.22    | 0.11   | 0.26   | 0.26   |
| random_control/i2c.aig       | 0.11    | 0.54   | 0.33   | 0.15   |
| random_control/int2float.aig | 0.052   | 0.041  | 0.045  | 0.048  |
| random_control/mem_ctrl.aig  | 142     | TO     | TO     | 62     |
| random_control/priority.aig  | 0.16    | 0.28   | 0.18   | 0.12   |
| random_control/router.aig    | 0.068   | 0.06   | 0.12   | 0.096  |
| arithmetic/adder.aig         | 3.2     | 10     | 6.1    | 4.6    |
| arithmetic/bar.aig           | 3.0     | 9.9    | 2.6    | 2.6    |
| arithmetic/max.aig           | 59      | 83     | 58     | 61     |
| arithmetic/sin.aig           | 14      | TO     | TO     | 16     |

(TO = Time Out, > 300s)

(Test environment: 
`Intel Core i7-1065G7 @ 8x 3.9GHz`, `x86_64 Linux 5.4.67-1-MANJARO`, `gcc version 10.2.0 (GCC)`)

There is not much difference in small cases. The performance of ver. 1 even slightly better then others, since it only create the sat solver once.
In large cases, the performance of ver. 3 is mush more better then others, because the time cost for sat solver is exponential on the number of variables.
